1.Introduction:

Three main requirement of any Intelligent system:
1)human like expertise in specific domain
2)adapt and learn in changing envirement.
3)making decision and taking action

Component of soft computing :
1)Neural network : For learning and adaption ie. recognize pattern
2)Fuzzy set theory : For uncertainty and human like reasoning implementation ie. knowledge and decision making 
3)Evolutionary algorithm : For finding optimum solution. ie Genetic Algorithm.
--Combination of any two technique generate Hybrid soft computing ststem.

Neural Network:
1)Artificial neural network inspired by Biological nn.ANN composed of many processing elememnt called neuran.
  Have application of data clustring,pattern recognization and data classification.

Fuzzy set theory:
1)deal with incomplete,imprecise,uncertain(vague) like brain as human brain do.Fuzzy Inference system(FIS) uses fuzzy 
  logic to map an input space to an output space.It uses if - then logic for selection.It lacks the ability of learning and adaption.

Evolutionary Algorithm:
1)  EA is subset of Evoltionary computation.GA is search and optimization technique and applied when search space is
    too large 

Differnce between hardcomputing and softcomputing:

     Hard computing                                                                        Soft computing

1) Its conventional type and work with preciuse data             1)It work with Imprecious and uncertain data.
2) They require program to be written.                           2)They evolve there own model and program.
3) Its model free												 3)Its model free.
4) It require exact data for problem solving					 4)It can deal with incomplete,noisy and uncertain
                                                                   data
5)It uses two value logic										 5)It work with multivalue logic like fuzzy logic.
6)It perform sequential computation								 6)It perform parallel computation like NN.
7)Output is precise 										     7)Output is approximate.
8)Its based on crisp logic,binary								 8)Its based on Fuzzy,EA,NN.
9)Its not fault tollerent										 9)Its fault tollerent.

